Q. Chen, X. Fu, W. Yang et al. Defence Technology 46 (2025) 59e70
conditions, which can form PDA coatings on the surface of mAl Thermogravimetric analysis and differential scanning calorimetry
microspheres. The self-polymerization includes both oxidative (TG-DSC, PerkinElmer STA 6000) were used to study the
polymerization of dopamine and physical self-assembly pathways, exothermic characteristics of mAl@Coating particles and solid fuels
as shown in Fig. 1(a). Specifically, 10 g of Al powder together with (x% mAl@Coating/Resin) composed of different components of
0.4 g of DOPA-HCl powder were put into 200 mL of deionized water mAl@Coating. The test was conducted from 35 (cid:1)C to 1300 (cid:1)C with a
(Al: DA ¼ 25:1, DA ¼ 2 g/L). Tris-HCl reagent was added to adjust heating rate of 10 k$min (cid:4)1, and the oxygen flow rate was main-
the pH to approximately 8.5. The mixture was kept at a temperature tained at 50 mL$min (cid:4)1.
of 25 (cid:1)C and stirred at 350 rpm for 12 h. Finally, the mixture was
filtered and dried to obtain the mAl@PDA powder. The dissolution- 2.6. Combustion diagnosis
recrystallization method was used to prepare the core-double-shell
structure mAl@PDA@PVDF (denoted as mAl@PF), as illustrated in Combustion tests of the 3D printed fuel grains were conducted
Fig. 1. 50 mg of PVDF powder was dissolved in 50 mL of DMF so- in the 2D radial hybrid combustion stand, originally designed by
lution by ultrasonication at 40 (cid:1)C for 30 min to form transparent the Space Propulsion Laboratory (SPLab) at Politecnico di Milano,
solution. Subsequently, 1 g of pre-prepared mAl@PDA particles and Italy [44,45] (Fig. 3). Pure gaseous oxygen replaced liquid oxygen in
300 mL of ethanol were added to the DMF solution at a rate of 20 the laboratory setup, with the Grylls 5920 mass flowmeter con-
drops per minute, resulting in mAl@PDA@PVDF with a PVDF mass trolling the oxygen flow rate. The combustion configuration
fraction of 4.76%. Ultimately, freeze-drying was employed to elim- featured four explosion-proof glass windows positioned at the
inate excess solvent and prevent agglomeration of the mAl@PF oxidizer injection and rear ends, providing optical access for
particles. monitoring burning time using a high-speed camera, specifically
the Revealer X190 M/C. Rapid and non-intrusive ignition of the
2.4. Preparation of 3D print fuels specimens was achieved through a nichrome wire spark ignition
system. Gaseous nitrogen served dual purposes: maintaining a
3D print fuel samples were manufactured through bottom-up stable pressure of around 1.0 MPa within the combustion chamber
Vat-photopolymerization technology, involving the successive and terminating the combustion process. The nitrogen flow was
printing of layers to create products at the Xi'an Modern Chemistry managed by an automated control system equipped with a pres-
Research Institute in Xi'an, PRC, as depicted in Fig. 2(a). Two types sure transmitter and a solenoid valve.
of photocurable resin-based fuels, circular tubular (labelled R) and A time-resolved technique was used for the regression rate (rf)
spiral star port (labelled S), were printed. Fuels without solid ad- determination. This data reduction procedure enables the identi-
ditives, served as the baselines for comparisons. All fuel composi- fication of relevant ballistic parameters (including the oxidizer
tion details are provided in Table 1, and the detailed geometry mass flux, Gox). Full details of the method are reported both in
parameters of circular tubular design and spiral star port design, supplementary material and elsewhere [45,46]. At least three
designed via the 3D drawing software Unigraphics NX are shown in combustion tests were conducted for each fuel formulation. Indi-
Fig. S4. The software, Ultimaker Cura, was used to convert the CAD vidual test data were aggregated into an ensemble average curve,
model to the STL file format suitable for 3D printing. which allowed for the definition of error bars based on the standard
In this study, UV light at 355 nm was employed with a preset deviation and ensured statistical significance.
laser power of 200 mW, and the first layer exposure time was set to
60 s to ensure successful printing. After each laser operation, the 3. Results and discussion
build platform ascended 12 cm to ensure full levelling of the resin
layers, then descended to the last print plane from a position of 3.1. Binding energy
35 mm and exposed for 3 s. Finally, an acetone solution is used to
remove the residue from the surface of the printed samples. Binding energy can be used to characterize the binding strength
Fig. 2 depicts real pictures (b) and mCT images of S30 (c) and R30 between interfaces, where binding energy (Ebind) can be defined as
(d) with 30% content of solid fillers. The observations reveal that the the negative value of interaction energy (Einter). In this study, in
fabricated light-curing grains exhibit high geometric accuracy, with order to explore the potential interface enhancement effect of PDA
clearly visible internal passages that align well with the CAD design surface modification between mAl and PVDF, the binding energy
drawings. Additionally, the cross-section is smooth and flat; how- between Al2O3 and PDA, Al2O3 and PVDF, and Al2O3@PDA and PVDF
ever, some unavoidable ripples are present between the axial were calculated respectively, and the calculation formulas are as
layers. Eq.(1):
(cid:1) (cid:3)
2.5. Characterization E ¼ (cid:4)E ¼ (cid:4) E (cid:4)E (cid:4)E (1)
bind inter total Al2O3 Coating
The morphology, elemental distribution of mAl and mAl@Coat- where, Ebind represents the binding energy between Al and coat-
ings, and the additive dispersion in the ResinþmAl/mAl@Coatings ings, Etotal represents the total energy between Al2O3 and coatings,
system were evaluated using field emission scanning electron mi- E
Al2O3
and E
Coating
represents the energy of Al2O3 and coatings,
croscopy (SEM, JSM-7600F). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy respectively, which are tabulated in Table 2.
(XPS, Thermo SCIENTIFIC ESCALAB Xi) and Fourier transform Fig. 4 illustrates the initial structures and equilibrium structures
infrared spectroscopy (ATR-FTIR, Bruker NICOLET iS10) were used of the interfaces between Al2O3/PDA, Al2O3/PVDF and Al2O3@PDA/
to characterize the surface element valence and elemental PVDF. The substantial difference in binding energies,
composition of the sample. During XPS characterization, the 7931.0 kJ$mol (cid:4)1 for Al2O3/PDA, 3251.8 kJ$mol (cid:4)1 for Al2O3/PVDF,
chamber pressure was maintained at the magnitude of 10 (cid:4)10 mbar, and 12945.2 kJ$mol (cid:4)1 for Al2O3@PDA/PVDF, underscores the ne-
and all the binding energies were referenced to the C1s peak at cessity of utilizing PDA as an intermediate layer, in consistent with
284.8 eV. X-ray diffraction analysis (XRD, Rigaku smartLab SE) was the literature [42,47]. It is suggested that Al2O3 exhibits stronger
carried out in the 2q range of 5(cid:1)e90(cid:1) with Cu-Ka1 radiation affinity for the PDA coating than for the PVDF coating, due to the
(l ¼ 1.5406 Å) to study the structural and compositional informa- rich presence of hydroxyl groups, amino groups, and other elec-
tion of the mAl, mAl@Coating, and fuels before and after combustion. tronegative functional groups in PDA layer facilitates effective
62