Q. Chen, X. Fu, W. Yang et al. Defence Technology 46 (2025) 59e70
Figs. 7(a1) and 7(b1), respectively. The baseline fuel (pure Resin) 4. Combustion performance
exhibits two mass loss stages corresponding to the exothermic
reactions peaking at 412.8 (cid:1)C and 425.3 (cid:1)C, with a total exothermic 4.1. Regression rate
heat of 2540.0 J/g. Upon adding mAl and mAl@PF, three distinct
exothermic peaks emerge: the first two exothermic peaks A qualitative assessment of the combustion process, the initial
(410e430 (cid:1)C) are attributed to the oxidative decomposition of and instantaneous internal surface diameter remarked in red and
Resin, and the third prominent peak (475e500 (cid:1)C) is attributed to green circle, respectively, in Fig. 8. Flame sequence images reveal
aluminum oxidation. Increasing the content of mAl and mAl@PF that the incorporation of mAl and mAl@PF particles results in a more
enhances the total exothermic heat, gradually overshadowing luminous appearance compared to that of pure resin fuels. Since
Resin's exothermic peaks, particularly noticeable in the mAl@PF/ the presence of mAl and mAl@PF significantly augments the com-
Resin system. The presence of the PVDF coating intensifies the bustion heat of fuel grains, leading to the elevated flame temper-
oxidative-exothermic process of aluminum, accentuating the third ature and expedited pyrolysis of the fuels during combustion.
exothermic peak and a higher amount of exothermic heat Additionally, the incinerating mAl particles migrate into the oxygen
compared to mAl/Resin systems at the same content levels of 5%, stream, as indicated by the bright spots, promoting mass transfer
10%, 20%, and 30%, yielding approximately 15.2%, 13.9%, 13.5%, and and increasing the combustion surface area. Particularly, in the
3.2% increasements, respectively. Consequently, incorporating initial stage of combustion, due to the small port area of the grains,
coated aluminum powder particles into Resin significantly boosts the oxidant mass flux is large, and mAl is entrained to the main
combustion heat and reactivity, scaling with the composite particle stream before it can be completely burned, resulting in a sparking
content. effect. In the case of fuels with mAl@PF, the PVDF coatings intensify
the oxidation of mAl, resulting in a more luminous flame from the
Fig. 8. Flame sequence of the non-loaded and loaded Resin-based formulations. (gaseous oxygen, 3 g/s, 1.0 MPa).
Fig. 9. Combustion performance of poxy acrylic based solid fuel. (a) Grains port diameter vs. time; (b) Regression rate vs. oxygen mass flux.
67